---
page_title: "Provider: DNS"
description: |-
  The DNS provider supports DNS updates (RFC 2136). Additionally, the provider can be configured with secret key based transaction authentication (RFC 2845) or can use GSS-TSIG (RFC 3645).
---

# DNS Provider

The DNS provider supports resources that perform DNS updates ([RFC 2136](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc2136)) and data sources for reading DNS information. The provider can be configured with secret key based transaction authentication ([RFC 2845](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc2845)) or GSS-TSIG ([RFC 3645](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc3645)).

Use the navigation to the left to read about the available resources and data sources.

## Example Usage

Using secret key based transaction authentication (RFC 2845):

```terraform
# Configure the DNS Provider
provider "dns" {
  update {
    server        = "192.168.0.1"
    key_name      = "example.com."
    key_algorithm = "hmac-md5"
    key_secret    = "3VwZXJzZWNyZXQ="
  }
}

# Create a DNS A record set
resource "dns_a_record_set" "www" {
  # ...
}
```

Using GSS-TSIG (RFC 3645):

```terraform
# Configure the DNS Provider
provider "dns" {
  update {
    server = "ns.example.com" # Using the hostname is important in order for an SPN to match
    gssapi {
      realm    = "EXAMPLE.COM"
      username = "user"
      keytab   = "/path/to/keytab"
    }
  }
}

# Create a DNS A record set
resource "dns_a_record_set" "www" {
  # ...
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Optional

- `update` (Block List) When the provider is used for DNS updates, this block is required. Only one `update` block may be in the configuration. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--update))

<a id="nestedblock--update"></a>
### Nested Schema for `update`

Optional:

- `gssapi` (Block List) A `gssapi` block. Only one `gssapi` block may be in the configuration. Conflicts with use of `key_name`, `key_algorithm` and `key_secret`. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--update--gssapi))
- `key_algorithm` (String) Required if `key_name` is set. When using TSIG authentication, the algorithm to use for HMAC. Valid values are `hmac-md5`, `hmac-sha1`, `hmac-sha256` or `hmac-sha512`. Value can also be sourced from the DNS_UPDATE_KEYALGORITHM environment variable.
- `key_name` (String) The name of the TSIG key used to sign the DNS update messages. Value can also be sourced from the DNS_UPDATE_KEYNAME environment variable.
- `key_secret` (String) Required if `key_name` is set
A Base64-encoded string containing the shared secret to be used for TSIG. Value can also be sourced from the DNS_UPDATE_KEYSECRET environment variable.
- `port` (Number) The target UDP port on the server where updates are sent to. Defaults to `53`. Value can also be sourced from the DNS_UPDATE_PORT environment variable.
- `recursive` (Boolean) Enable the Recursion Desired (RD) flag on DNS queries
- `retries` (Number) How many times to retry on connection timeout. Defaults to `3`. Value can also be sourced from the DNS_UPDATE_RETRIES environment variable.
- `server` (String) The hostname or IP address of the DNS server to send updates to. Value can also be sourced from the DNS_UPDATE_SERVER environment variable.
- `timeout` (String) Timeout for DNS queries. Valid values are durations expressed as `500ms`, etc. or a plain number which is treated as whole seconds. Value can also be sourced from the DNS_UPDATE_TIMEOUT environment variable.
- `transport` (String) Transport to use for DNS queries. Valid values are `udp`, `udp4`, `udp6`, `tcp`, `tcp4`, or `tcp6`. Any UDP transport will retry automatically with the equivalent TCP transport in the event of a truncated response. Defaults to `udp`. Value can also be sourced from the DNS_UPDATE_TRANSPORT environment variable.

<a id="nestedblock--update--gssapi"></a>
### Nested Schema for `update.gssapi`

Optional:

- `keytab` (String) This or `password` is required if `username` is set, not supported on Windows. The path to a keytab file containing a key for `username`. Value can also be sourced from the DNS_UPDATE_KEYTAB environment variable.
- `password` (String, Sensitive) This or `keytab` is required if `username` is set. The matching password for `username`. Value can also be sourced from the DNS_UPDATE_PASSWORD environment variable.
- `realm` (String) The Kerberos realm or Active Directory domain. Value can also be sourced from the DNS_UPDATE_REALM environment variable.
- `username` (String) The name of the user to authenticate as. If not set the current user session will be used. Value can also be sourced from the DNS_UPDATE_USERNAME environment variable.
